Matthew 935 explains that Jesus set out on a tour of all the cities and villages of Galilee preaching the good news of the kingdom.
Thus, rather than slowing down toward the end of his earthly ministry, he expanded his efforts to reach more people.
In the same way, the service committee under the direction of the governing body is expanding and accelerating the life-saving preaching work right up to the end.
One way the service committee accomplishes this is through the service departments in each branch office.
In harmony with the Bible principle to let all things take place decently and by arrangement, the service departments coordinate the preaching work.
Let's take a behind the scenes look at how the work of the service department in each branch benefits us.
The Field Ministers desk coordinates the assignments of special full-time service who take the lead in the preaching work.
Globally, there are over 45,000 special full-time servants in the field serving in the circuit work as special pioneers and as field missionaries.
The Guardian Body knows that they need practical assistance to carry out their assignments. Thus, the Field Ministers desk looks after their spiritual and physical needs.
This desk helps to find suitable housing and also ensures that they receive shepherding and encouragement, especially when they're facing challenges in their assignment, such as health issues or family emergencies.
In order to reach as many people as possible, the preaching needs desk oversees a wide range of matters involving the preaching work of the entire branch territory.
The preaching needs desk is involved in establishing special preaching campaigns.
They start by considering if there is sufficient interest and resources to justify a campaign, sometimes the campaign is supported from within the branch territory, and sometimes a request is made for international support.
I've been privileged to share in four different special preaching campaigns. In their own way, the each had a life changing impact on me.
It was really nice to witness to people who had never heard about Jehovah before and had never spoken to Jehovah's Witnesses. One young man I met was my age. He was all alone in the refugee camp. His entire family had died in his home country when their house was hit by a bomb.
We were able to share the Bible's promise of a resurrection and introduce him to the congregation where he began attending meetings. It was a special experience I will never forget.
Preaching needs desk also coordinates arrangements for special metropolitan public witnessing. When thinking of possible locations, the brothers look for cities with dense populations and areas with significant pedestrian or foot traffic.
When they find an area with good potential, capable brothers are assigned to coordinate the work. This is similar to the way that harbor witnessing is arranged.
In some areas, there are hundreds or even thousands of volunteers, so good coordination is extremely important. More workers are needed in the harvest, so it's encouraging to see Jehovah's people eagerly respond to the call and share in public or harbor witnessing, support special preaching campaigns or serve where the need is greater.
At this unique time in history, when all of us people are exerting themselves to preach the good news in all the earth, the service departments appreciate the privilege to have organized this great work that Jehovah is accomplishing.